Installation steps for Single Node Airflow

First, make sure you have installed Docker Desktop and Visual Studio. If not, take a look at these links:

Get Docker(desktop app)
Get Visual Studio Code

To Enable BIOS in local computer
Restart computer and press F2 key continuously.
Then in setting enable BIOS and virtualization both

Once Docker engine is running fine on local computer follow the next steps

Install Apache Airflow with Docker


Create a folder materials in your Documents

In this folder, download the following file: docker compose file

If you right-click on the file and save it, you will end up with docker-compose.yaml.txt. Remove the .txt and keep docker-compose.yaml

Open your terminal or CMD and go into Documents/materials

Open Visual Studio Code by typing the command: code .

You should have something like this


Right click below docker-compose.yml and create a new file .env (don't forget the dot before env)

In this file add the following lines

AIRFLOW_IMAGE_NAME=apache/airflow:2.4.2
AIRFLOW_UID=50000
and save the file


Go at the top bar of Visual Studio Code -> Terminal -> New Terminal


In your new terminal at the bottom of Visual Studio Code, type the command docker-compose up -d and hit ENTER


You will see many lines scrolled, wait until it's done. Docker is downloading Airflow to run it. It can take up to 5 mins depending on your connection. If Docker raises an error saying it can't download the docker image, ensure you are not behind a proxy/vpn or corporate network. You may need to use your personal connection to make it work. At the end, you should end up with something like this:

Well done, you've just installed Apache Airflow with Docker! 🎉

Open your web browser and go to localhost:8080

## If you forgot password or add a new user 
Run the following command to list all running Docker containers:
docker ps

Enter the Airflow webserver container (or any Airflow container that has access to the Airflow CLI):
docker exec -it airflow-webserver bash

in above command replace airflow-webserver with acutual airflow webserver id or name

Reset password for the existing admin user:
airflow users reset-password --username admin --password newpassword123

Create a New Admin User (If Resetting Password Doesn’t Work)
airflow users create \
  --username newadmin \
  --firstname Firstname \
  --lastname Lastname \
  --email user@example.com \
  --role Admin \
  --password newpassword123
